server/Functions/README.md, before:

# About Functions

## ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES for local dev

These can be set as either environment variables or project scoped User Secrets.

```bash
setx AzureWebJobsStorage "UseDevelopmentStorage=true"
setx ALPACA_KEY "YOUR ALPACA API KEY"
setx ALPACA_SECRET "YOUR ALPACA SECRET KEY"
```

## CRON

For our demo, we'll generally cache QQQ and SPY daily quotes every minute
during extended market hours 8am-6pm M-F U.S. eastern time with CRON `"0 */1 08-18 * * 1-5"`.

- [CRON syntax documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-timer#cron-expressions)

To enable use of eastern time zone CRON values, we have configured our Azure Functions
to override the default UTC timezone; which is okay for our purposes.

## TIME ZONE

Azure App Service server app settings on Linux servers:

>`TZ` : `America/New_York` for Linux instance.

This is often documented for Windows instances servers as:

>`WEBSITE_TIME_ZONE` : `Eastern Standard Time`

This is set in the Azure App Service settings online
and not in local app settings files.

Commit message:

feat: Initialize package.json for stock-charts application with workspace setup and development scripts
chore: Remove unnecessary .gitignore files from server and Functions directories

docs: Update README.md in Functions to clarify local development setup and environment variables

fix: Simplify launchSettings.json for WebApi by removing IIS Express configuration

server/Functions/README.md, after:

# Azure Functions - Stock Charts

This Azure Functions project handles scheduled data fetching and processing for the Stock Charts application.

> **Note**: For general development setup, see the [main project README](../../README.md#development-setup).

## Local development environment variables

These can be set as either environment variables or project scoped User Secrets:

```bash
setx AzureWebJobsStorage "UseDevelopmentStorage=true"
setx ALPACA_KEY "YOUR ALPACA API KEY"
setx ALPACA_SECRET "YOUR ALPACA SECRET KEY"
```

**Azure storage**: The project uses [Azurite](../../README.md#local-storage-with-azurite) for local development, which is automatically installed via the main project's npm dependencies.

## CRON configuration

For our demo, we'll generally cache QQQ and SPY daily quotes every minute
during extended market hours 8am-6pm M-F U.S. eastern time with CRON `"0 */1 08-18 * * 1-5"`.

- [CRON syntax documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-timer#cron-expressions)

To enable use of eastern time zone CRON values, we have configured our Azure Functions
to override the default UTC timezone; which is okay for our purposes.

## Time zone configuration

Azure App Service server app settings on Linux servers:

>`TZ` : `America/New_York` for Linux instance.

This is often documented for Windows instances servers as:

>`WEBSITE_TIME_ZONE` : `Eastern Standard Time`

This is set in the Azure App Service settings online and not in local app settings files.

## Related documentation

- [Main Project Setup](../../README.md#development-setup) - Complete development environment setup
- [Environment Configuration](../../README.md#environment-configuration) - Additional configuration details  
- [Azure Key Vault Setup](../../README.md#setting-up-azure-key-vault-for-storing-secrets) - Secure secret management

---
Last updated: August 15, 2025
